we're all probably guilty of sitting a
little too close to our screens whether
you're a gamer and your monitor is too
big for your desk or you spend hours a
day with a vr headset strapped to your
noggin or if you were just yelled at by
your mom by having your face practically
smushed against the tv while you're
watching saturday morning cartoons man
i'm old okay but what exactly qualifies
as too close i mean sure you don't want
to sit so close where you're making out
individual pixels but can sitting really
close to the screen actually damage your
vision as the public has commonly
believed to help us answer we spoke with
ophthalmology fellow and cornell medical
school graduate dr daniel agarwal and
we'd like to thank him for his
contributions so a big part of the
reason people worry about whether
sitting too close can hurt their eyes is
that many of us feel eye strain when
we're staring at something for far too
long eye strain is a natural consequence
of attempting to focus on just one thing
for long periods of time and if you're
sitting close to a screen chances are
you're hyper focused on whatever it is
you're looking at say a tense moment in
a sporting event or an angry message
from a soon to be ex-lover but why does
focusing on something for a long time
make your eyes hurt it turns out that
the mechanism for this isn't completely
understood but it's thought that because
your eyes are trying to intensely
maintain their focus for so long it ends
up overworking your ciliary muscles
these are the muscles that control the
shape and curvature of the crystalline
lens near the front of your eye so that
they can properly focus looking at
something close by causes them to
contract so it's natural that they might
tire out just think about how sore your
other muscles get after a hard day at
the gym however the good news is that
this has never been demonstrated to
cause permanent eye damage in adults and
if you're worried about brightness
that's probably not a big deal either as
everyday electronic screens simply don't
appear to get bright enough to cause
retinal damage although it might be
unpleasant to use a phone at full
brightness in a dark room i know that
annoys me it's nowhere close to say
staring at the sun like an idiot or
doing something stupid with a laser
pointer but if you're a teenager or you
have children or your teenager with
children keep in mind some studies have
suggested that excessively focusing on
objects too close to you can cause
nearsightedness or myopia later in life
because your eye is still growing at
that age and this isn't limited to
sitting too close to electronic screens
even if you're spending too much time
with your nose in a book that can cause
problems too so make sure you're resting
your eyes enough if you're one of our
younger viewers of course eyestrain is
still annoying even if it isn't actually
harmful to adults in the long term so if
you're suffering from tired eyes after
yet another hour playing league of
legends give your eyes a break and maybe
go outside where you'll probably be
paying attention to objects that are
more distant from you another good idea
is to use a reputable brand of
artificial tears not el chipo eye drops
since when you're focusing on things
close to you for long periods your eyes
tend to dry out because you're not
blinking as much that's really all there
is to it if you're an adult there are
far greater health concerns from staring
at a screen all day like maintaining
poor posture or ending up like dr
robotnik because you never bother to get
up from your racing chair this video is
brought to you by freshbooks freshbooks
cloud accounting software works anywhere
with the help of their mobile app you
can create professional looking invoices
on the go snap pictures of your receipts
so you don't lose them and stay on top
of important conversations with
freshbooks you can see when a client has
viewed their invoice or when an invoice
has become overdue so start your 30-day
trial right now at freshbooks.com
forward slash techquickie so thanks for
watching guys if you like this video you
know what to do give it a like give it a
subscribe and hit us up in the comments
section with your suggestions for topics
that we should cover in the future